#22 filter the blocks (#49)
nickmoreton/wagtail-wordpress-import: docs/prefilters.md

- [Pre-Filtering HTML content](#pre-filtering-html-content)
- [Why use pre-filters](#why-use-pre-filters)
- [Pre-filters](#pre-filters)
  - [Included pre-filters](#included-pre-filters)
  - [Pre-filter configuration](#pre-filter-configuration)
    - [Pre-filter running order](#pre-filter-running-order)
  - [Running order:](#running-order)
  - [Add your own pre-filter / options](#add-your-own-pre-filter--options)
  - [Create pre-filter methods](#create-pre-filter-methods)

# Why use pre-filters

> Pre-filters provide transformations to be made on a page's content before it is used to build StreamField blocks. In the imported XML file, the page's content is available in each `<item><content:encoded />text content is here ...` element.

Reviewer: ``<content:encoded>`` shouldn't be closed here

> Pre-filters provide transformations to be made on a page's content before it is used to build streamfield blocks. In the XML file thats imported, the pages content is available in each `<item><content:encoded />text content is here ...` element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pre-filters provide transformations to be made on a page's content before it is used to build StreamField blocks. In the imported XML file, the page's content is available in each `<item><content:encoded />text content is here ...` element.
```

> *For example, WordPress renders a double line break as separate paragraphs. The import process requires valid HTML rather than the plain text of the source XML. We have included a pre-filter that uses a Python implementation of the PHP script that's used in WordPress to convert two line breaks into `</p><p>`.*

Reviewer: I think the middle sentence here could be removed.

Second sentence could maybe be shortened to: "We have included a Python implementation of Wordpress's built-in double line break converter as a pre-filter."

> *One example of the transformations is: WordPress interprets lines of text separated by two line breaks as separate paragraphs when rendered. The import process requires valid `HTML` rather than the `plain text` that's available in the XML file we are importing. We have included a pre-filter that uses a python implementation of the PHP script that's used in wordpress to convert 2 line breaks into `<p>`.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*For example, WordPress renders a double line break as separate paragraphs. The import process requires valid HTML rather than the plain text of the source XML. We have included a pre-filter that uses a Python implementation of the PHP script that's used in WordPress to convert two line breaks into `</p><p>`.*
```

---

# Pre-filters

Each time the importer processes a page, the body content is transformed by running a series of pre-filters in a specific order.

***Pre-Filter processes included***

1. double line break converted to paragraphs
2. inline styles transformer
3. HTML clean up filter

## Included pre-filters

---

-- **filter_linebreaks_wp()** [source](wagtail_wordpress_import/prefilters/linebreaks_wp_filter.py)

Converts double line breaks into paragraphs

> This filter implements a python script that uses the same process as `wpautop` to convert the raw HTML content into HTML content. It generally adds `<p>` tags around text that has no surrounding tag. Therefore the text lines in the filtered content will have a surround HTML tag in place if one was not already included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This filter reimplements the `wpautop` PHP script into Python, to convert the raw HTML content into HTML content. It generally adds `<p>` tags around text that has no surrounding tag. Therefore the text lines in the filtered content will have a surround HTML tag in place if one was not already included.
```

---

-- **filter_transform_inline_styles()** [source](wagtail_wordpress_import/prefilters/transform_styles_filter.py)

This filter converts any inline style rules to their corresponding HTML tags where possible (e.g. bold and italic text). Otherwise it converts alignment style rules to CSS classes.

> *e.g:*

Reviewer: For Example:

> This filter applies any inline styles to the html tag directly where that's possible. It generally wraps a tag around a piece of text as well as applying css classes to a tag to represent alignment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This filter converts any inline style rules to their corresponding HTML tags where possible (e.g. bold and italic text). Otherwise it converts alignment style rules to CSS classes.
```

```html

> <span style="font-weight: bold;>some text</span>

Reviewer: Missing a ``"``

```
is converted to 
```html
<b>some text</b>
```
and 
```html

> <p style="text-align: left;>some text</p>

Reviewer: Missing a ``"``

```
is converted to
```html
<p class="align-left">some text</p>

```

The outcome of these transformations helps us normalize the content that's likely to become part of a `RichText()` field

---

-- **filter_bleach_clean()** [source](wagtail_wordpress_import/prefilters/bleach_filter.py)

This filter removes tags that aren't included in range of `ALLOWED_TAGS`, `ALLOWED_ATTRIBUTES` and `ALLOWED_STYLES` configuration settings.

> It's possible to add new settings to this configuration to suit your own use case. We provide a sensible range to cover most use cases.

Reviewer 2: **Suggestion** Link to bleach.

```suggestion
It's possible to add new settings to this configuration to suit your own use case. We provide a sensible range to cover most use cases. For the use of bleach's configuration options, see https://bleach.readthedocs.io/en/latest/.
```

The output of the last pre-filter is used to build the stream field blocks in a later process.

## Running order: 
It's possible to change the pre-filter running order by changing the order of the defaults provided.

> Add the below settings to your  own settings file and change the order of the list items

Reviewer: Double space, missing colon
